Gacha is a devilish system that can very quickly bring the ire of any and all players. Considering that monetary gain is not a key aspect of this project the FOMO intended for this game should be kept to a low to mid rate (although most gachas have fear of waiting rather than entirely missing out). One solution would be to have a discount on released characters for a short period before they are added to a general pool of characters. Another option would be to just have a second gacha that quickly rotates between all characters so that players could get their desired character without too much characters.
For pools of characters the aspect of pity is a major consideration, this could either be that if a player does get the release character they want they might get their choice from the general pool of characters and then the next try at the release character is guaranteed. Another aspect of gachas is price of rolling for a character, this is so stupidly complicated and decided as a marketing decision that it doesn't belong here.

### Grind
One final note about gachas is the grind for rolls, do we want a time gated system with a time gated replenishing resource like almost all mobile games or would we want something where a player can grind an indefinite amount of time and potentially unlock all of the characters. Neither of these feel great so a system where grinding was more rewarding than the current market of gacha games was used but would not allow players to completely finish the game in an unrestricted manner. One note about limited resources is that it would be kinder to players if that system was on a weekly timer rather than an hourly or daily timer to be more considerate of different jobs that players might have. For instance make it more reasonable for players to do the grinding entirely on the weekend and don't require any or at least all that much play during workdays. One aspect might be to have a series of smaller activities that are 5 minutes or less to complete and could more quickly be completed after work or during small periods of downtime. Consider providing less grindy alternatives to these activities that provide worse rewards. For instance many mobile games will offer the ability to complete grindy activities at the push of a button once some requirement was completed.

### Overview
Currently the best plan seems to be a gacha system where the current character runs for x amount of time and is then added to a pool of all released characters. Players have a 50-50 chance of getting the current character otherwise they get their choice from the general pool of characters and are then guarantied the current character on the next roll. It seems like the best system is for there to be some form of limit on the grinding that players can do in terms of unlocking characters. This should be done in the form of weekly and monthly/seasonal/event challenges that reward currency towards gacha. The rate at which the average player gets a new desired character should probably be quicker than the rate at which they can fully build that character. This will help lessen the desire to roll on gacha and focus on exploration and coop activities that reward materials and items for the building of the characters.

#Development #Figment #Planning #Player_Experience 