The theme of this game is intended to allow the use of guns while still providing flexibility for different enemy types and technologies for abilities. The best analogue of current games seems to be arknights but we might need some other additions to widen the enemy variety.

### Factions
There is intended to be a main opposing faction that has similar levels of technology but is more brutal in it's actions and handling of civilians. There is also intended to be a smaller faction that develops and experiments with various forms of higher tech, this faction is part of the corruption that the primary faction has. There will also be a monster faction, these will constitute most of the bosses in the game and will represent most if not all of the melee enemies that the player will find, there may be a small amount of melee enemies in the other factions but it will be diminished. There is lastly the civilians who are the most varied in appearance and intention, some may be hostile others neutral, there may be melee combatants in this factions as well, more makeshift overall. The civilians will have the most variety in purpose, goals, and intention. Some may want to just protect their families, others may have more malicious intentions.

### Setting
The game will be primarily taking place in dense urban areas that are separated by sections suburbs or rural regions. Each urban area is intended to have unique aspects of appearance and in general its own visual palate. Each city is also indented to have unique variations on enemies although the mid tier faction might end up being more of a visual change. The presence that each faction has in each city is also likely to be different with some having stronger control then others. There will be a trend of cities further away from the starting city will be more inhabited by monsters.

### Timeline
Some time in the near (10-20 years) future. No mass produced new innovations on guns but drones and the such are more advanced and autonomous with a wide range of uses. 